Hello, I would like to create a new feature for ride sharing. So, I would like to create a new feature for the service. I'm not sure if you can reuse the same or have a different one. I want it to be the same and to do the same things. It's just the events that will be different. So, what would be the plan according to you? 

Alright, I will give you even more information so you can maybe complete this plan or change it according to your needs. So I would like to, the app will be actually, the idea is to have live ride sharing, which is different than normally ride sharing is for long distances. I want to focus on like in-city ride sharing so it has to be inside the city and very fast you need to detect very fast that someone is going to the same place than you want and the tour should be minimum.

How it works is that I thought about it in terms of algorithms. I will have a buffer and this buffer will represent the route that the user, the driver is taking from his origin to the destination and the system should adapt to it and it's not for him to change his destination or change his route but for the app to help him find people on his way. So to represent that, I presented the route as a buffer, so like a rectangle with certain widths that can be determined in a variable. For example, at the beginning, it should be like 10 meters max of the detour.

And then the users that would be picked or that are requesting a ride were represented with by an isochron polygon of a certain radius because they don't have to be picked exactly where they are now. They should be able to walk a small distance in order to reach a good spot for the driver to pick them up. And for the payment, each drive, so they do not be considered as taxis and be under the regulations of taxis. Drivers can only take money for the expenses of the trip. This needs to be calculated and the user who is picked up should pay. I will use Stripe for this. It will be a safe platform so both the driver and the people who ask for rides will be identified with their ID verification. I will use Stripe as well for this.

For the map view, I'm thinking about using the Mapbox Navigator for the distancing, like isochron areas, etc. So yeah, sorry, the users will be presented not by a circle but more accurately by an isochron polygon and this would use rather Radar that comes, I think it's a service with the library that is aimed at doing these things with isochron things, distancing, geolocalization, geofencing. And the app should be very reactive and even if it's closed, the user should be notified in the background of anything happening for the driver or for the user.

Regarding the methodology for finding the most suitable user to pick up for a driver, there are different methodologies. When I was thinking about it, there is, for example, the by detecting with geofencing, so when a car enters a certain area, we would use as well an isochron polygon around the user, then it would match them. And this isochron polygon is different than the isochron polygon for walking distance that the user will walk in order to find the driver. This other isochron polygon is used for geofencing for detecting that the car is nearby and can be booked for that specific user because if we don't do it like that, if we just look at the intersection between the buffer route and the isochron polygons around the users, if we just look at the intersection, it might be that you find a match, but actually another driver has a better match for them, is closer to them. And we want the app to be as reactive as possible. It has to be live, this seamless feeling.

And for that reason, I'm thinking the car has to be quite close to the user for them to be a good candidate. That's it, I think, for the algorithm. And the walking distance of the user can be as well set by them. Initially, we can put something like maybe, I don't know, 50 meters.

For the backend, I'm thinking of using cloud functions, Firebase cloud functions. Same for the database. I will use the Firestore. I'm not sure if I should use the SQL. Well, Firebase has something called Data Connect where you can use an SQL table with the same functionalities that the NoSQL table. I'm not sure if I need an SQL table or the NoSQL table is enough. What do you think? So based on this information, how would you go about it? 

I would like to add more information again as I'm thinking more about it. Regarding the algorithm for matching, what I'm thinking is, each user would be modeled by an isochron polygon, which represents the distance they allow themselves to walk in order to reach the rider who will pick them up. And so you have one isochron polygon for the origin where the user is actually the rider and one for the destination where they are going. So the distance they allow themselves to walk in order to reach the destination. So that's what represents the user I guess. And then you have for both positions another isochron which is larger and represents the time it takes for the car to arrive to them. So let's say the user can walk 20 meters. We have to know how long it takes to walk these 20 meters. And based on that, we create an isochron for the car around the user that will allow us to give enough time for the user to arrive at the pickup positions because, as you remember, we start to define if a driver is a match for a user based on their geofencing, so we look if the GPS location of the car enters the user's geofence, but not the walking geofence, the driving geofence of the user. So this geofence gives enough time for the user to be picked up to reach the position, the place where it needs to be picked up. These positions will be inside the walking geofence, walking isochron polygon of the user. And then you have the driver of the car, isochron polygon that is around the user, which is at least the time it takes for the user to reach that position, a particular position, or like it should be at least the time it takes for the user to reach the limit of its isochron walking geofence polygon because reaching this limit would represent the maximum of time a user could walk. Based on that, we determine an isochron polygon for the car. So we know that in the worst case, so 50 meters walking for example, it would take that much time. So we need to predict that and consider that for the geofencing to detect if a car is arriving around the user. So the driver isochron polygon should be at least equal to the maximum walking distance walking time accepted by the user. And maybe add an extra time for making the calculations, etc., which will take some, maybe seconds. It might be nothing, but when a car is driving, they cover, maybe some distance. So the condition for a driver to be able to match with the user is that the driver must enter the driver's isochron polygon of the user. But it must be as well a condition, a requirement is that the destination is a crone polygon, walking polygon for the user, for the destination is overlapping with the driver's buffer route. 

I don't know if you're finished in all cases. I want to add as well more information as I am thinking about it. So, there will be cases where a particular spot for picking up a rider might become like too crowded, like too many cars coming almost at the same time, and it might create congestion. And we don't want to create congestion. So, the system should be smart to pick up a place that will not be, will not create congestion.

And another thing is that the best use scenario for the rider is to have one trip, so he gets in a car and arrives at his destination with one trip. But depending on the amount of drivers, of routes that crosses the rider's path or going to the destination, based on the frequency of that, based on the number of drivers, based on the day, based on the time, based on the history of trips, driver trips, we might need to have the rider to take, for example, two cars. And in worse cases, maybe three cars or four cars. I think after three cars, it starts to be like a bit, a very bad experience. But maybe still useful for like emergencies.

But yeah, our system should adapt and be able to assign the user to multiple sub-trips with different drivers if we don't find for one driver. And it would be nice to have this predicted, so we don't just wait for a driver to come in, the driver to get in the driver jail fence. But we should be able to be proactive when possible, based on the historical data. So, I know that around that time it will be very unlikely to have one trip take you to this destination. So, we can try to find you a two-trip journey. And if I know that two is too hard, I can try to find a three sub-trip journey. It should be based on historical data and as well on live data. And between each sub-trip, the pickup should be the walking is a crop polygon should be much smaller than possibly for the initial place origin or destination because you want to provide a very good user experience. So, if they go down from the first car, they would need to just almost at the same spot have the second car, and almost at the same, just after it, by a few seconds, max 10-15 seconds, in order to make the experience amazing, seamless. So, you don't have to walk and wait much. It's a must. You go down from one car, and you get picked up by the next car right away. This way, the user will not be unhappy to take two or three cars in order to reach their destination. 

I would like to add more information: we need to consider the number of seats occupied and available within the driver's course. 

I would like to add more information: the rider might have some luggage with them, or a backpack or something, that would like to have some space for, or put in the back of the car, so that's as well something to consider, if the car driver has this possibility or not. 

      I would like to add more information. I'm just thinking that maybe, like a premium option for the rider, to be able to transport some items like jeans, backpacks, etc. They could also have another premium option to choose the car they want, like the brand, if they want to be the only one in the car, or any other specific criteria that riders might have. I'm thinking as well, maybe a car that is not smoking, or there is no music, or where there are no dogs, animals, that have AC if it's too hot, or like heated seats, heat depending on the weather, etc. 

I would like to add another piece of information. I'm thinking about when a driver picks up a rider, they should be picking them up in a safe place where the car can actually stop for a few seconds to pick up the user. Because I'm not sure if it's allowed for the driver to stop in the middle of any street, I need to learn more about the rules and regulations about this, but I suspect that they cannot stop just anywhere. So the system needs to consider this and decide an appropriate spot, stopping for a few seconds to not disturb the traffic and not go against the law, and for security. So, you might know better than me on what is allowed and not allowed. 

Another thing I'm thinking about is that the rider might actually be with some friends, family members, animals, or luggage, and that should be considered as well. The pricing should adapt to that. 

I'm just thinking as well that the writer might have, like, children or a baby or babies, and same for the driver inside the car, so you can decide like how valuable this information is, how to edit, etc. 

So, based on all that we've defined so far, what do you advise regarding the backhand algorithmic requirements, specific requirements, and needs for this kind of system? 

Should we get any inspiration from Uber? 

Alright, and in terms of pure technologies, they are using to get some inspiration because I think they have a scalable system. Another thing I wanted to add as information for our plan is that for security, women should be matched only with a car with a woman driver and all the passengers being women, and men should be only matched to men drivers with only men riders, so there should be no mixity in the cars for safety. 

alright, what's the final complete plan ?

did you include the fact we don't want to create congestion when pickinup or dropping a rider ?

